In this session, we will discuss about the workflow.

In an organisation we must have proper system and tools to get the work done
from its employees in an effective and efficient manner, with the provisions
to track each and every activity.

The task starts from head office or let us say from the office of the
Principal or the Director in case of a College or an Institute.

Either the principal himself or the office of the principal or some
designated person in the Head Office will create some space on a computer,
somewhere, to collect information related to a particular project.  We will
call that “created space” as a repository and this repository will be on
cloud.  That means the Head Office will create a space where you can have
all the information to be generated by all the employees or other concerned
persons.

To contribute to that space, every employee should have a copy of that. 
Having a copy of that, as per the terminology of the tool, which we are
discussing, is called FORK F-O-R-K.

That means to have a copy of the repository created by the Head Office, you
must have permission or authorisation to do so.  If you have that
authorisation then you can fork the repository created by the head office.

What do you mean by forking?

In my opinion, you can visualise it like that your head office has created a
cake or a pizza and you can have a bite of that pizza for yourself, which
you cut with the help of a FORK.  That means, the pizza prepared by head
office can be tasted by yourself, that is, you can eat it and beauty is
that it is not only a small piece which you can take in your mouth, in your own
area, but you can take the whole pizza.     
  
So forking means, taking work of someone else, into your own area by copying it. 
This is the forking and another beauty is that when you fork, you get everything,
which is there in the repository created by the head office, but full pizza
is still available with the head office and other authorised employees can
also fork it.  So in our context, forking means getting a copy of work done
by someone else (which is Head Office in this case) into your own area.

So that's what is the meaning of the FORKING.

Head Office will make a repository available on cloud, which will be
assessed by authorised persons with the help of a web address.  That web
address will be github.com as an example used in this training session.

The other authorised persons or employees must have access to that web
address.  For that you need to login to github.com by creating an account
there, if you don’t have already.  In case organisation or corporate, you
need not to create an account yourself, but the IT team will create an
account for you.  After login, enter the link of the repository, created by
your Head Office.  On getting the repository page, you can find on top right
there is an icon named “fork”, click on that icon.  It will make a copy of
that repository and keep it in your area, as your own repository, but it is
still on github.com.  To add content or to modify content, we would like to
bring it in our own computer.  That computer may be a corporate or
institutional server, as in our case, we are using the code server with
address code.gndec.ac.in, or desktop or laptop.

The process of copying a repository from github.com to your computer is
called `Cloning`.  To clone on the code server, login to Code Server with
the help of mosh.  Go to the desired folder.  Issue:

git clone https://github.com/UserId/RepositoryName.git

command to clone repository.

If user is hsrai and repository is www, then command will be:

git clone https://github.com/hsrai/www.git

There you will see a new folder created with the name www.  In folder www,
you may add new files or edit existing ones.

If you do any of the above things, i.e adding a new file, or amend existing,
or remove any file, then you need to update your own area on the cloud.

To fork www repository (which is the website project) of user or
organisation, named GNDEC-Ldh, use command:

git clone https://github.com/GNDEC-Ldh/www.git

Explore the content folder. Modify files, remove or add new files.

You need to learn how to update your version in your area on the cloud, and
then from your area on cloud, you will be able to update your Head Office
copy.

That's how this workflow will work.

At every moment we will keep a track, who made which change.

Wait for more instructions on portal guru.gndec.ac.in

Thank you.
